---
title: What I use, 2024 edition
tags:
  - Uses
redirect_from:
  - /uses
---

Hi, I'm Louis! I'm the [the Gleam programming language](https://gleam.run) guy.

This is my nostalgic record of the tech stuff I've been using over the last
year. Check out [2023's post](/blog/what-i-use-2023) to see where I started the
year. Alright, thumbs up, let's do this.

## My workstation

I'm still using the 2020 Macbook Air with 16GB RAM, hostnamed "Diglett". It's
doing me well, though I'm somewhat hitting the limits of what it can handle.
Streaming to Youtube and Twitch and also trying to compile Rust makes it
overhead and throttle the CPU, at which point everything slows down a ton. My
solution has largely been to not do Rust streams. Ah well.

I've upgraded my 1440p monitor to a 27 inch 5K LG display that I got a good deal
on second hand. It has some issues with temporary image burn-in (is that the
right term?) and a couple dead pixels, but it works and I enjoy the extra screen
space, and it's nice to give other people's old electronics a new life that
isn't landfill.

Hey, so you know how Apple sells 5K displays? MacOS must have great 5K display
support then! Scaling the UI appropriately rather than making everything
unusably small, right? Yeah, turns out MacOS is _terrible_ with 5K displays. Far
worse than Windows or Linux. I had an absolutely miserable day fruitlessly
trying to find a solution and thinking I'd wasted my money. In the end [Magic
Mike Marshall](https://x.com/TheITGeekCom) came to the rescue and recommended
[BetterDisplay](https://github.com/waydabber/BetterDisplay). Thank you Mike!

I'm honestly stunned that MacOS is so bad at this. It's supposed to be the "just
works" operating system that puts loads of work and polish into their UI, and
they're selling 5K displays for it!

Oh, and I bought a pair of AirPods Pro 2, mostly motivated by their transparency
mode where you can still hear the outside world wearing them. They're a lot
better than I expected, I'm rather fond of them now, and I use them for pretty
much everything. Except the microphone, the microphone is pants.

I've continued to enjoy Neovim, but I'm growing irritated with the Lazyvim
distribution. The maintainers have a different idea about backwards
compatibility than I do, and multiple times in recent months I've turned on my
computer to discover that they've radically changed something and completely
broken my workflow. I'm in the process of making my own custom setup based off
of [kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim) and [mini.nvim](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim),
but I've not found the time to figure out all the details. I've stubbornly been
using kickstart as inspiration and writing my own config, but realistically I
should probably just clone kickstart and use that as the start-point.

Oh, and I switched from Iterm2 to [Ghostty](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty)
after getting irritated with the silly AI stuff being added. I'd felt Iterm2 was
a bit bloated and rubbish, so it was enough to prompt me to try alternatively.
Ghostty is very nice! I like that it's cross platform, so I can use it on Linux
etc too.

## Homelab

Last year I said I wanted to try replacing Google Photos with something else,
and this year Google forced by hand by adding a bunch of adverts and constantly
nagging me to buy more storage from them.

Side note: Irritation really does seem to be the most powerful motivator to me.
I've grown less and less happy with how companies and such will just decide to
change something that makes my life worse in some small irritating way. It may
be that you get less polish making your own tools or using open source ones,
but it's predictable, you don't need to worry about suits making changes
motivated by their annual performance review, and you get that nice IKEA effect
fuzzy feeling.

Anyway- I went for [Immich](https://github.com/immich-app/immich) which is an
unabashed open source Google Photos clone. I really like it! The user experience
is very slick and easily competes with products from large companies.

It's engineered like some sort of enterprise product though, being a collection
of microservices. I've no idea why, given it's intended mostly for self-hosting.
Luckily some folks made an [all-in-one container image](https://github.com/imagegenius/docker-immich/)
that I could deploy instead of managing multiple different ones, so I can
mostly ignore the internal architecture now.

Compared to anything I was hosting previously it's quite resource hungry. Idle
it uses about a gig of memory between all the services and the two databases
(why does a self-hosted application need two databases?), so my Raspberry Pi
felt a bit underpowered. It especially wasn't happy at all when running computer vision
and transcoding newly uploaded media. I found a used 2021 N5105 Mini PC with 16GB RAM
and 1.5 TB of storage in Cash Converters for a good price, so I've made that my
new home server.

I decided to be bold and use not-Debian for the first time in a million years,
and after a lot of shopping around I opted for OpenSUSE MicroOS, an immutable
Linux distro with a transactional package management system. This means that to
make changes it takes a btrfs snapshot and installs the updates into that
snapshot instead of the live system, and then that gets used after the machine
reboots. I love this design! No more do you have skew between the intended state
of the system and the actual one, and if it doesn't work you can rollback to the
old one. I've got it updating and rebooting early Sunday morning, as I thought
the default of daily wasn't what I needed.

As for deploying software to the server, I decided to use containers this time,
as I like how they keep everything nicely wrapped up and I don't need to worry
installing language runtimes and their dependencies. I was reluctantly
considering using something like docker-compose, but then I discovered [Quadlet,
Podman's systemd integration](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-systemd.unit.5.html).
I love it! It's one of the nicest little bits of tech I've used in ages.

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Gleam Developer Survey container
After=local-fs.target

[Container]
Image=ghcr.io/gleam-lang/developer-survey:1.13.0
Volume=/mnt/data/gleam-developer-survey:/app/data:rw,z
PublishPort=8000:8000

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target default.target
```

Pop that in `/etc/containers/systemd/gleam-developer-survey.container`, run
`systemctl daemon-reload`, and then you have a container as a systemd unit that
works with `systemctl start`, etc. Delightful!

### The Future

The next steps for me are to finish organising all my photos and moving them
over to Immich. There's an import script for Google Photos, but I'm taking the
opportunity to sort through all the junk and categorise everything instead of
replicating the same huge mess in a new place.

And also to figure out a new nvim config. Only time will tell if I finish this,
or if I'll give up and use kickstart. Either way it'll be grand, I'm sure.

Happy new year folks. Best of luck to you in 2025, I'll see you there. x
